Update bdr mode && add description related bdr sql (#15925)
pingcap/docs: ticdc/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md

- `ADD NON-UNIQUE INDEX`
- `DROP INDEX`
- `MODIFY COLUMN`: can only modify the `default value` and `comment` of the column
- `ALTER COLUMN DEFAULT VALUE`
- `MODIFY TABLE COMMENT`
- `RENAME INDEX`
- `ADD TABLE PARTITION`
- `DROP PRIMARY KEY`
- `ALTER TABLE INDEX VISIBILITY`
- `ALTER TABLE TTL`
- `ALTER TABLE REMOVE TTL`
- `CREATE VIEW`
- `DROP VIEW`

### 不可复制的 DDL

Non-replicable DDLs are the DDLs that have a great impact on the business and cannot be directly replicated to other TiDB clusters in bi-directional replication through TiCDC. Non-replicable DDLs must be executed through specific operations.

Non-replicable DDLs include:

- `DROP DATABASE`
- `DROP TABLE`
- `ADD COLUMN`: the column is `null` and does not have a `default value`
- `DROP COLUMN`
- `ADD UNIQUE INDEX`
- `TRUNCATE TABLE`
- `MODIFY COLUMN`: modify the attributes of the column except `default value` and `comment`
- `RENAME TABLE`
- `DROP PARTITION`
- `TRUNCATE PARTITION`
- `ALTER TABLE CHARACTER SET`
- `ALTER DATABASE CHARACTER SET`
- `RECOVER TABLE`
- `ADD PRIMARY KEY`
- `REBASE AUTO ID`
- `EXCHANGE PARTITION`
- `REORGANIZE PARTITION`

## DDL replication

> To solve the problem of replicable DDLs and non-replicable DDLs, TiDB introduces three BDR roles:
> 
> - `LOCAL_ONLY` (default): you can execute any DDL, but the DDLs executed after you enable `bdr_mode=true` in TiCDC will not be replicated by TiCDC.

Author: ```suggestion
To solve the problem of replicable DDLs and non-replicable DDLs, TiDB introduces the following BDR roles:

```

- `PRIMARY`: you can execute replicable DDLs, but cannot execute non-replicable DDLs. Replicable DDLs will be replicated to the downstream by TiCDC.
- `SECONDARY`: you cannot execute replicable DDLs or non-replicable DDLs, but can execute the DDLs replicated by TiCDC.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

When no BDR role is set, you can execute any DDL. But after you set `bdr_mode=true` on TiCDC, the executed DDL will not be replicated by TiCDC.

```

> **Warning:**
>
> This feature is experimental. It is not recommended that you use it in the production environment. This feature might be changed or removed without prior notice. If you find a bug, you can report an [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues) on GitHub.

### Replication scenarios of replicable DDLs

1. Choose a TiDB cluster and execute `ADMIN SET BDR ROLE PRIMARY` to set it as the primary cluster.
2. On other TiDB clusters, execute `ADMIN SET BDR ROLE SECONDARY` to set them as the secondary clusters.
3. Execute **replicable DDLs** on the primary cluster. The successfully executed DDLs will be replicated to the secondary clusters by TiCDC.

> **Note:**
>
> To prevent misoperations:
>
> - If you try to execute **replicable DDLs** on the secondary clusters, you will get an [Error 8263](/error-codes.md).
> - No matter you try to execute **replicable DDLs** or **non-replicable DDLs** on the secondary clusters, you will get an [Error 8263](/error-codes.md).

### Replication scenarios of non-replicable DDLs

> 1. Execute `ADMIN SET BDR ROLE LOCAL_ONLY` on all TiDB clusters to set the BDR role to `LOCAL_ONLY` (default).

Author: ```suggestion
1. Execute `ADMIN UNSET BDR ROLE` on all TiDB clusters to cancel the BDR role.
```

> 1. Set the BDR role of all TiDB clusters to `LOCAL_ONLY` (default) and then execute `ADMIN SET BDR ROLE LOCAL_ONLY`.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Execute `ADMIN SET BDR ROLE LOCAL_ONLY` on all TiDB clusters to set the BDR role to `LOCAL_ONLY` (default).
```

After the configuration takes effect, the clusters can perform bi-directional replication.

## DDL types

Starting from v7.6.0, to support DDL replication as much as possible in bi-directional replication, TiDB divides the [DDLs that TiCDC originally supports](/ticdc/ticdc-ddl.md) into two types: replicable DDLs and non-replicable DDLs, according to the impact of DDLs on the business.

### Replicable DDLs

Replicable DDLs are the DDLs that can be directly executed and replicated to other TiDB clusters in bi-directional replication.

Replicable DDLs include:

- `CREATE DATABASE`
- `CREATE TABLE`
- `ADD COLUMN`: the column must be `not null` or have a `default value`
- `ADD NON-UNIQUE INDEX`
- `DROP INDEX`
- `MODIFY COLUMN`: can only modify the `default value` and `comment` of the column
- `ALTER COLUMN DEFAULT VALUE`
- `MODIFY TABLE COMMENT`
- `RENAME INDEX`
- `ADD TABLE PARTITION`
- `DROP PRIMARY KEY`
- `ALTER TABLE INDEX VISIBILITY`
- `ALTER TABLE TTL`
- `ALTER TABLE REMOVE TTL`
- `CREATE VIEW`
- `DROP VIEW`

### 不可复制的 DDL

> Non-replicable DDLs are the DDLs that have a great impact on the business and cannot be directly replicated to other TiDB clusters in bi-directional replication through TiCDC. Non-replicable DDLs must be executed through specific operations.

Author: ```suggestion
Non-replicable DDLs are the DDLs that have a great impact on the business, and might cause data inconsistency between clusters. Non-replicable DDLs cannot be directly replicated to other TiDB clusters in bi-directional replication through TiCDC. Non-replicable DDLs must be executed through specific operations.
```

2. On other TiDB clusters, execute `ADMIN SET BDR ROLE SECONDARY` to set them as the secondary clusters.
3. Execute **replicable DDLs** on the primary cluster. The successfully executed DDLs will be replicated to the secondary clusters by TiCDC.

> **Note:**
>
> To prevent misoperations:
>
> - If you try to execute **replicable DDLs** on the secondary clusters, you will get an [Error 8263](/error-codes.md).
> - No matter you try to execute **replicable DDLs** or **non-replicable DDLs** on the secondary clusters, you will get an [Error 8263](/error-codes.md).

### Replication scenarios of non-replicable DDLs

1. Execute `ADMIN UNSET BDR ROLE` on all TiDB clusters to cancel the BDR role.
2. Stop writing data to the tables that need to execute DDLs in all clusters.
3. Wait until all writes to the corresponding tables in all clusters are replicated to other clusters, and then manually execute all DDLs on each TiDB cluster.
4. Wait until the DDLs are completed, and then resume writing data.
5. Follow the steps in [Replication scenarios of replicable DDLs](#replication-scenarios-of-replicable-ddls) to switch back to the replication scenario of replicable DDLs.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

> **Warning:**
>
> Do not execute any other DDLs during this time.

```

## Stop bi-directional replication

After the application has stopped writing data, you can insert a special record into each cluster. By checking the two special records, you can make sure that data in two clusters are consistent.

After the check is completed, you can stop the changefeed to stop bi-directional replication, and execute `ADMIN UNSET BDR ROLE` on all TiDB clusters.

## Limitations

- Use BDR role only in the following scenarios:

    - 1 `PRIMARY` cluster and n `SECONDARY` clusters (replication scenarios of replicable DDLs)

>     - n clusters that have no BDR roles (replication scenarios of non-replicable DDLs)

Author: ```suggestion
    - n clusters that have no BDR roles (replication scenarios in which you can manually execute non-replicable DDLs on each cluster)
```

>     **Note that do not set the BDR role to other scenarios, for example, setting `PRIMARY`, `SECONDARY`, and no BDR roles at the same time. If you set the BDR role incorrectly, TiDB cannot guarantee data correctness.**

Author: ```suggestion
    **Note that do not set the BDR role to other scenarios, for example, setting `PRIMARY`, `SECONDARY`, and no BDR roles at the same time. If you set the BDR role incorrectly, TiDB cannot guarantee data correctness and consistency during data replication.**
```

> - Usually do not use `AUTO_INCREMENT` or `AUTO_RANDOM` to avoid data conflicts in the replicated tables. If you need to use `AUTO_INCREMENT` or `AUTO_RANDOM`, you can set different `auto_increment_increment` and `auto_increment_offset` for different clusters to ensure that different clusters can be assigned different primary keys. For example, if there are three TiDB servers (A, B, and C) in bi-directional replication, you can set them as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
- Usually do not use `AUTO_INCREMENT` or `AUTO_RANDOM` to avoid data conflicts in the replicated tables. If you need to use `AUTO_INCREMENT` or `AUTO_RANDOM`, you can set different `auto_increment_increment` and `auto_increment_offset` for different clusters to ensure that different clusters can be assigned different primary keys. For example, if there are three TiDB clusters (A, B, and C) in bi-directional replication, you can set them as follows:
```

>     - In A, set `auto_increment_increment=3` and `auto_increment_offset=2000`
>     - In B, set `auto_increment_increment=3` and `auto_increment_offset=2001`
>     - In C, set `auto_increment_increment=3` and `auto_increment_offset=2002`

Author: ```suggestion
    - In Cluster A, set `auto_increment_increment=3` and `auto_increment_offset=2000`
    - In Cluster B, set `auto_increment_increment=3` and `auto_increment_offset=2001`
    - In Cluster C, set `auto_increment_increment=3` and `auto_increment_offset=2002`
```

After the configuration takes effect, the clusters can perform bi-directional replication.

## DDL types

Starting from v7.6.0, to support DDL replication as much as possible in bi-directional replication, TiDB divides the [DDLs that TiCDC originally supports](/ticdc/ticdc-ddl.md) into two types: replicable DDLs and non-replicable DDLs, according to the impact of DDLs on the business.

### Replicable DDLs

Replicable DDLs are the DDLs that can be directly executed and replicated to other TiDB clusters in bi-directional replication.

Replicable DDLs include:

- `CREATE DATABASE`
- `CREATE TABLE`

> - `ADD COLUMN`: the column must be `not null` or have a `default value`

Author: ```suggestion
- `ADD COLUMN`: the column can be `null`, or has `not null` and `default value` at the same time
```

Reviewer: has -> with? I am not sure which is better.

Author: ![Uploading image.png…]()

- `ADD NON-UNIQUE INDEX`
- `DROP INDEX`

> - `MODIFY COLUMN`: can only modify the `default value` and `comment` of the column

Author: ```suggestion
- `MODIFY COLUMN`: you can only modify the `default value` and `comment` of the column
```

- `ALTER COLUMN DEFAULT VALUE`
- `MODIFY TABLE COMMENT`
- `RENAME INDEX`
- `ADD TABLE PARTITION`
- `DROP PRIMARY KEY`
- `ALTER TABLE INDEX VISIBILITY`
- `ALTER TABLE TTL`
- `ALTER TABLE REMOVE TTL`
- `CREATE VIEW`
- `DROP VIEW`

> ### 不可复制的 DDL

Author: ```suggestion
### Non-replicable DDLs
```

Non-replicable DDLs are the DDLs that have a great impact on the business, and might cause data inconsistency between clusters. Non-replicable DDLs cannot be directly replicated to other TiDB clusters in bi-directional replication through TiCDC. Non-replicable DDLs must be executed through specific operations.

Non-replicable DDLs include:

- `DROP DATABASE`
- `DROP TABLE`

> - `ADD COLUMN`: the column is `null` and does not have a `default value`

Author: ```suggestion
- `ADD COLUMN`: the column is `not null` and does not have a `default value`
```

Reviewer: lgtm

- `SECONDARY`: you cannot execute replicable DDLs or non-replicable DDLs, but can execute the DDLs replicated by TiCDC.

When no BDR role is set, you can execute any DDL. But after you set `bdr_mode=true` on TiCDC, the executed DDL will not be replicated by TiCDC.

> **Warning:**
>
> This feature is experimental. It is not recommended that you use it in the production environment. This feature might be changed or removed without prior notice. If you find a bug, you can report an [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues) on GitHub.

### Replication scenarios of replicable DDLs

1. Choose a TiDB cluster and execute `ADMIN SET BDR ROLE PRIMARY` to set it as the primary cluster.
2. On other TiDB clusters, execute `ADMIN SET BDR ROLE SECONDARY` to set them as the secondary clusters.
3. Execute **replicable DDLs** on the primary cluster. The successfully executed DDLs will be replicated to the secondary clusters by TiCDC.

> **Note:**
>
> To prevent misoperations:
>
> - If you try to execute **replicable DDLs** on the secondary clusters, you will get an [Error 8263](/error-codes.md).

> > - No matter you try to execute **replicable DDLs** or **non-replicable DDLs** on the secondary clusters, you will get an [Error 8263](/error-codes.md).

Author: ```suggestion
> - If you try to execute **replicable DDLs** or **non-replicable DDLs** on the secondary clusters, you will get an [Error 8263](/error-codes.md).
```

> > - If you try to execute **non-replicable DDLs** on the primary cluster, you will get an [Error 8263](/error-codes.md).
> > - If you try to execute **replicable DDLs** or **non-replicable DDLs** on the secondary clusters, you will get an [Error 8263](/error-codes.md).

Author: ```suggestion
> - If you try to execute **non-replicable DDLs** on the primary cluster, you will get the [Error 8263](/error-codes.md).
> - If you try to execute **replicable DDLs** or **non-replicable DDLs** on the secondary clusters, you will get the [Error 8263](/error-codes.md).
```

### Replication scenarios of non-replicable DDLs

> 1. Execute `ADMIN UNSET BDR ROLE` on all TiDB clusters to cancel the BDR role.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Execute `ADMIN UNSET BDR ROLE` on all TiDB clusters to unset the BDR role.
```

2. Stop writing data to the tables that need to execute DDLs in all clusters.
3. Wait until all writes to the corresponding tables in all clusters are replicated to other clusters, and then manually execute all DDLs on each TiDB cluster.
4. Wait until the DDLs are completed, and then resume writing data.
5. Follow the steps in [Replication scenarios of replicable DDLs](#replication-scenarios-of-replicable-ddls) to switch back to the replication scenario of replicable DDLs.

> **Warning:**
>

> > Do not execute any other DDLs during this time.

Author: ```suggestion
> After you execute `ADMIN UNSET BDR ROLE` on all TiDB clusters, none of the DDLs are replicated by TiCDC. You need to manually execute the DDLs on each cluster separately.
```

## Stop bi-directional replication

After the application has stopped writing data, you can insert a special record into each cluster. By checking the two special records, you can make sure that data in two clusters are consistent.

After the check is completed, you can stop the changefeed to stop bi-directional replication, and execute `ADMIN UNSET BDR ROLE` on all TiDB clusters.

## Limitations

- Use BDR role only in the following scenarios:

    - 1 `PRIMARY` cluster and n `SECONDARY` clusters (replication scenarios of replicable DDLs)
    - n clusters that have no BDR roles (replication scenarios in which you can manually execute non-replicable DDLs on each cluster)

>     **Do not set the BDR role in other scenarios, for example, setting `PRIMARY`, `SECONDARY`, and no BDR roles at the same time. If you set the BDR role incorrectly, TiDB cannot guarantee data correctness and consistency during data replication.**

Author: ```suggestion
    > **Note:**
    >
    > Do not set the BDR role in other scenarios, for example, setting `PRIMARY`, `SECONDARY`, and no BDR roles at the same time. If you set the BDR role incorrectly, TiDB cannot guarantee data correctness and consistency during data replication.
```
